Add OADP 1.4.1 release notes (#81739)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-1-4-1-release-notes.adoc

> :_newdoc-version: 2.18.3

Author: yup, thanks for sharing this.

> :_template-generated: 2024-09-12

Author: yup, I've removed it

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-1-4-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="oadp-1-4-1-release-notes_{context}"]
= OADP 1.4.1 release notes

The {oadp-first} 1.4.1 release notes lists new features, resolved issues and bugs, and known issues.

[id="new-features-1-4-1_{context}"]
== New features

.New DPA fields to update client qps and burst

You can now change Velero Server Kubernetes API queries per second and burst values using the new Data Protection Application (DPA) fields. The new DPA fields are `spec.configuration.velero.client-qps` and `spec.configuration.velero.client-burst`, which both default to 100.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4076[OADP-4076]

[id="resolved-issues-1-4-1_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

.PodVolumeBackup CR now displays correct message

> Previously, the `PodVolumeBackup` custom resource (CR) had an incorrect message, `get a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the `PodVolumeBackup` custom resource (CR) had an incorrect message, `: get a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed"`.
```

With this update, the message is now updated as follows:
----
found a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting,
mark it as "Failed".
----
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4224[OADP-4224]

.Overriding imagePullPolicy is now possible with DPA  

Previously, {oadp-short} set the `imagePullPolicy` parameter to `Always` for all images.
With this update, {oadp-short} checks if each image contains `sha256` or `sha512` digest, then it sets `imagePullPolicy` to `IfNotPresent`; otherwise sets it to `Always`. You can now override this policy by using the new `spec.containerImagePullPolicy` DPA field.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4172[OADP-4172]

.OADP Velero can now retry updating the restore status if initial update fails

Previously, OADP Velero failed to update the restored CR status and the status was stuck at `InProgress` indefinitely. As a consequence, it affected other components' behavior that relied on the backup and restore CR status to determine the completion. 

> With this update, the restore CR status would not be `InProgress` indefinitely and should eventually be `Complete` or `Failed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, the restore CR status would not be `InProgress` indefinitely and should eventually be `Completed` or `Failed`.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3227[OADP-3227]

.Restoring BuildConfig Build from a different cluster is successful without any errors
 
Previously, on performing a restore of the `BuildConfig` Build resource from a different cluster, the application resulted in errors on TLS verification to the internal image registry. It resulted in the `failed to verify certificate: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority` error.
With this update, the application restores successfully without any errors.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4692[OADP-4692]

.Restoring an empty PVC is successful 

Previously, downloading data failed while restoring an empty persistent volume claim (PVC). It failed with the following error:
----
data path restore failed: Failed to run kopia restore: Unable to load
    snapshot : snapshot not found
----

> With this update, an empty PVC is restored correctly and data download does not fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this update, the downloading of data proceeds to correct conclusion when restoring an empty PVC and the error message is not generated. 
```

Reviewer 2: Suggested clarification.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3106[OADP-3106]

.There is no Velero memory leak in CSI and DataMover plugins

> Previously, Velero memory leak was caused while using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and it caused the memory to grow until an Out of Memory (OOM) condition for the Velero pod. With this update, there is no Velero memory leak.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, a Velero memory leak was caused by using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and the memory leak consumed memory until an `Out of Memory` (OOM) condition was generated in the Velero pod. With this update, there is no resulting Velero memory leak when using the CSI and DataMover plugins.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4448[OADP-4448]

> .Post restore hooks does not start before the related PVs are released

Reviewer 2: Suggesting Post-hook operation instead of Post restore hooks.

Previously, due to the asynchronous nature of the Data Mover operation, a post-hook might be attempted before the related pods' persistent volumes (PVs) were released by the Data Mover persistent volume claim (PVC). As a consequence, backup PartiallyFailed.
With this update, the post-hook operation is not started now before the related PVs are released by data Mover PVC, and the backup is successful. 
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3140[OADP-3140]

.Deploying a DPA works as expected in namespaces with more than 37 characters

> While installing the OADP Operator in a namespace with more than 37 characters and when creating a new DPA, labeling the "cloud-credentials" Secret fails, and the DPA reports the following error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While installing the OADP Operator in a namespace with more than 37 characters to create a new DPA, labeling the "cloud-credentials" Secret will fail and the DPA reports the following error:
```

Reviewer 2: Suggesting simplifications because this is a complicated sentence. Emphasizing that the "37 characters" creates the problem and not creating a new DPA.

Reviewer 2: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=medium-global-audiences

---- 
The generated label name is too long.  
----
With this update, deploying a DPA does not fail in namespaces with more than 37 characters in the name.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3960[OADP-3960]

> .Restore is successfully completed by override the timeout error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Restore is successfully completed by overriding the timeout error
```

> Previously, in a large scale environment, restore operation would Partiallyfailed with an error `fail to patch dynamic PV, err: context deadline exceeded`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, in a large scale environment, the restore operation would result in a `Partiallyfailed` status with the error: `fail to patch dynamic PV, err: context deadline exceeded`.
```

Reviewer 2: Adding "the" for clarification and the words "result in a" to provide clarification.

With this update, the `resourceTimeout` Velero server argument is used to override this timeout error resulting in a successful restore.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4344[OADP-4344]

For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12442016[OADP 1.4.1 resolved issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-1-4-1_{context}"]
== Known issues

.Cassandra application pods enter into the `CrashLoopBackoff` status after restoring OADP

> After {oadp-short} restores, the Cassandra application pods might enter in the `CrashLoopBackoff` status. To work around this problem, delete the `StatefulSet` pods that are returning an error or the `CrashLoopBackoff` state after restoring {oadp-short}. The `StatefulSet` controller recreates these pods and it runs normally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After {oadp-short} restores, the Cassandra application pods may enter `CrashLoopBackoff` status. To work around this problem, delete the `StatefulSet` pods that are returning the error `CrashLoopBackoff` state after restoring {oadp-short}. The `StatefulSet` controller then recreates these pods and it runs normally.
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for clarifying the logic.

Reviewer 2: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=medium-global-audiences

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4407[OADP-4407]

.Deployment referencing ImageStream is not restored properly leading to corrupted pod and volume contents

During a File System Backup (FSB) restore operation, a `Deployment` resource referencing an `ImageStream` is not restored properly. The restored pod that runs the FSB, and the `postHook` is terminated prematurely.

> This happens because, during the restore operation, OpenShift controller updates the `spec.template.spec.containers[0].image` field in the `Deployment` resource with an updated `ImageStreamTag` hash. The update triggers the rollout of a new pod, terminating the pod on which `velero` runs the FSB and the post restore hook. For more information about image stream trigger, see xref:../../../openshift_images/triggering-updates-on-imagestream-changes.adoc#triggering-updates-on-imagestream-changes[Triggering updates on image stream changes].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the restore operation, the {ocp} controller updates the `spec.template.spec.containers[0].image` field in the `Deployment` resource with an updated `ImageStreamTag` hash. The update triggers the rollout of a new pod, terminating the pod on which `velero` runs the FSB along with the post-hook. For more information about image stream trigger, see xref:../../../openshift_images/triggering-updates-on-imagestream-changes.adoc#triggering-updates-on-imagestream-changes[Triggering updates on image stream changes].
```

Reviewer 2: Suggested simplification.

Reviewer 2: Suggesting post-hook instead of post restore hook.

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.3
:_template-generated: 2024-09-12
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-1-4-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="oadp-1-4-1-release-notes_{context}"]
= OADP 1.4.1 release notes

The {oadp-first} 1.4.1 release notes lists new features, resolved issues and bugs, and known issues.

[id="new-features-1-4-1_{context}"]
== New features

.New DPA fields to update client qps and burst

> You now can change Velero Server Kubernetes API queries per second and burst values using new Data Protection Application (DPA) fields. The new DPA fields are `spec.configuration.velero.client-qps` and `spec.configuration.velero.client-burst`, which both default to 100. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can now change Velero Server Kubernetes API queries per second and burst values using the new Data Protection Application (DPA) fields. The new DPA fields are `spec.configuration.velero.client-qps` and `spec.configuration.velero.client-burst`, which both default to 100.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4076[OADP-4076]

[id="resolved-issues-1-4-1_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

.PodVolumeBackup CR now displays correct message

> Previously, the `PodVolumeBackup` CR had an incorrect message, `get a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, the `PodVolumeBackup` custom resource (CR) had an incorrect message, `get a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed"`.
```

With this update, the message is now updated as follows:
[source,terminal]
----
found a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting,
mark it as "Failed".
----
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4224[OADP-4224]

.Overriding imagePullPolicy is now possible with DPA  

> Previously, OADP used to set the `imagePullPolicy` parameter to `Always` for all images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, {oadp-short} set the `imagePullPolicy` parameter to `Always` for all images.
```
I think "previously ... used to... " is a bit repetitive

> With this update, OADP now checks if each image contains `sha256` or `sha512` digest then it sets `imagePullPolicy` to `IfNotPresent`; otherwise sets it to `Always`. You can now override this policy by using the new `spec.containerImagePullPolicy` DPA field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this update, {oadp-short} checks if each image contains `sha256` or `sha512` digest, then it sets `imagePullPolicy` to `IfNotPresent`; otherwise sets it to `Always`. You can now override this policy by using the new `spec.containerImagePullPolicy` DPA field.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4172[OADP-4172]

.OADP Velero can now retry updating the restore status if initial update fails

Previously, OADP Velero failed to update the restored CR status and the status was stuck at `InProgress` indefinitely. As a consequence, it affected other components' behavior that relied on the backup and restore CR status to determine the completion. 
With this update, the restore CR status would not be `InProgress` indefinitely and should eventually be `Complete` or `Failed`.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3227[OADP-3227]

.Restoring BuildConfig Build from a different cluster is successful without any errors
 

> Previously, on performing a restore of the BuildConfig Build resource from a different cluster, the application resulted in errors on TLS verification to the internal image registry. It resulted in the `failed to verify certificate: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority` error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, on performing a restore of the `BuildConfig` Build resource from a different cluster, the application resulted in errors on TLS verification to the internal image registry. It resulted in the `failed to verify certificate: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority` error.
```

With this update, the application restores successfully without any errors.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4692[OADP-4692]

.Restoring an empty PVC is successful 

Previously, downloading data failed while restoring an empty persistent volume claim (PVC). It failed with the following error:
[source,terminal]
----
data path restore failed: Failed to run kopia restore: Unable to load
    snapshot : snapshot not found
----
With this update, an empty PVC is restored correctly and data download does not fail.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3106[OADP-3106]

.There is no Velero memory leak in CSI and DataMover plugins

> Previously, Velero memory leak was caused while using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and it caused the memory to grow till OOM (Velero pod). With this update, there is no Velero memory leak.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Previously, Velero memory leak was caused while using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and it caused the memory to grow until OOM (Velero pod). With this update, there is no Velero memory leak.
```

> Previously, Velero memory leak was caused while using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and it caused the memory to grow till OOM (Velero pod). With this update, there is no Velero memory leak.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, Velero memory leak was caused while using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and it caused the memory to grow till out-of-memory (OOM) (Velero pod). With this update, there is no Velero memory leak.
```

Author: based on the existing occurrence in OCP, I've used Out of Memory (OOM).

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-1-4-release-notes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

> 

Reviewer 5: @anarnold97 and I thought it would be useful to add a link to FAQ in the release notes https://access.redhat.com/articles/5456281
probably at the top

Author: ack, the link is now added. 
@weshayutin, are there any other suggestions for the added release notes or does it look good?

= OADP 1.4.1 release notes

The {oadp-first} 1.4.1 release notes lists new features, resolved issues and bugs, and known issues.

[id="new-features-1-4-1_{context}"]
== New features

.New DPA fields to update client qps and burst

You can now change Velero Server Kubernetes API queries per second and burst values by using the new Data Protection Application (DPA) fields. The new DPA fields are `spec.configuration.velero.client-qps` and `spec.configuration.velero.client-burst`, which both default to 100.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4076[OADP-4076]

.Enabling non-default algorithms with Kopia

With this update, you can now configure the hash, encryption, and splitter algorithms in Kopia to select non-default options to optimize performance for different backup workloads.

To configure these algorithms, set the `env` variable of a `velero` pod in the `podConfig` section of the DataProtectionApplication (DPA) configuration. If this variable is not set, or an unsupported algorithm is chosen, Kopia will default to its standard algorithms.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4640[OADP-4640]

[id="resolved-issues-1-4-1_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

> .Restoring a backup is now successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Restoring a backup without pods is now successful
```

Previously, restoring a backup without pods and having `StorageClass VolumeBindingMode` set as `WaitForFirstConsumer`, resulted in the `PartiallyFailed` status with an error: `fail to patch dynamic PV, err: context deadline exceeded`. 
With this update, patching dynamic PV is skipped and restoring a backup is successful without any `PartiallyFailed` status.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4231[OADP-4231]

.PodVolumeBackup CR now displays correct message

Previously, the `PodVolumeBackup` custom resource (CR) generated an incorrect message, which was: `get a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed"`.
With this update, the message produced is now:

> ----

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[source,text]
----
```

Reviewer 6: You need this metadata per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#system-messages

found a podvolumebackup with status "InProgress" during the server starting,
mark it as "Failed".
----
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4224[OADP-4224]

.Overriding imagePullPolicy is now possible with DPA

Previously, {oadp-short} set the `imagePullPolicy` parameter to `Always` for all images.

> With this update, {oadp-short} checks if each image contains `sha256` or `sha512` digest, then it sets `imagePullPolicy` to `IfNotPresent`; otherwise sets it to `Always`. You can now override this policy by using the new `spec.containerImagePullPolicy` DPA field.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
With this update, {oadp-short} checks if each image contains `sha256` or `sha512` digest, then it sets `imagePullPolicy` to `IfNotPresent`; otherwise `imagePullPolicy` is set to `Always`. You can now override this policy by using the new `spec.containerImagePullPolicy` DPA field.
```

Reviewer 6: You need a noun here since you're using a semicolon. There must be two complete sentences on either side of a semicolon

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4172[OADP-4172]

.OADP Velero can now retry updating the restore status if initial update fails

Previously, {oadp-short} Velero failed to update the restored CR status. This left the status at `InProgress` indefinitely. Components which relied on the backup and restore CR status to determine the completion would fail.

> With this update, the restore CR status for a restore will correctly proceed to `Completed` or `Failed` status.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
With this update, the restore CR status for a restore correctly proceeds to the `Completed` or `Failed` status.
```

Reviewer 6: IGMSG advises to avoid future tense

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3227[OADP-3227]

.Restoring BuildConfig Build from a different cluster is successful without any errors

Previously, when performing a restore of the `BuildConfig` Build resource from a different cluster, the application generated an error on TLS verification to the internal image registry. The resulting error was `failed to verify certificate: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority` error.
With this update, the restore of the `BuildConfig` build resources to a different cluster can proceed successfully without generating the `failed to verify certificate` error.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4692[OADP-4692]

.Restoring an empty PVC is successful

Previously, downloading data failed while restoring an empty persistent volume claim (PVC). It failed with the following error:

> ----

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[source,text]
----
```

data path restore failed: Failed to run kopia restore: Unable to load
    snapshot : snapshot not found
----
With this update, the downloading of data proceeds to correct conclusion when restoring an empty PVC and the error message is not generated. 
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3106[OADP-3106]

.There is no Velero memory leak in CSI and DataMover plugins

Previously, a Velero memory leak was caused by using the CSI and DataMover plugins. When the backup ended, the Velero plugin instance was not deleted and the memory leak consumed memory until an `Out of Memory` (OOM) condition was generated in the Velero pod. With this update, there is no resulting Velero memory leak when using the CSI and DataMover plugins.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4448[OADP-4448]

.Post-hook operation does not start before the related PVs are released

> Previously, due to the asynchronous nature of the Data Mover operation, a post-hook might be attempted before the related pods' persistent volumes (PVs) were released by the Data Mover persistent volume claim (PVC). This problem would cause the backup to fail with a `PartiallyFailed` status.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Previously, due to the asynchronous nature of the Data Mover operation, a post-hook might be attempted before the Data Mover persistent volume claim (PVC) releases the persistent volumes (PVs) of the related pods. This problem would cause the backup to fail with a `PartiallyFailed` status.
```

Reviewer 6: A suggestion to avoid possession for inanimate objects, per https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-possessives

With this update, the post-hook operation is not started until the related PVs are released by the Data Mover PVC, eliminating the `PartiallyFailed` backup status.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3140[OADP-3140]

.Deploying a DPA works as expected in namespaces with more than 37 characters

> While installing the OADP Operator in a namespace with more than 37 characters to create a new DPA, labeling the "cloud-credentials" Secret will fail and the DPA reports the following error:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When you install the OADP Operator in a namespace with more than 37 characters to create a new DPA, labeling the "cloud-credentials" Secret fails and the DPA reports the following error:
```

Reviewer 6: This sentence read a little strange to me. I wonder if "when you install" works as an alternative here? Also, avoid future tense as noted before.

----
The generated label name is too long.
----

> With this update, deploying a DPA does not fail in namespaces with more than 37 characters in the name.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
With this update, creating a DPA does not fail in namespaces with more than 37 characters in the name.
```

Reviewer 6: use consistent language. You use create before, so use it again here instead of deploy

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3960[OADP-3960]

.Restore is successfully completed by overriding the timeout error

Previously, in a large scale environment, the restore operation would result in a `Partiallyfailed` status with the error: `fail to patch dynamic PV, err: context deadline exceeded`.
With this update, the `resourceTimeout` Velero server argument is used to override this timeout error resulting in a successful restore.
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-4344[OADP-4344]

For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12442016[OADP 1.4.1 resolved issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-1-4-1_{context}"]
== Known issues

.Cassandra application pods enter into the `CrashLoopBackoff` status after restoring OADP

> After {oadp-short} restores, the Cassandra application pods may enter `CrashLoopBackoff` status. To work around this problem, delete the `StatefulSet` pods that are returning the error `CrashLoopBackoff` state after restoring {oadp-short}. The `StatefulSet` controller then recreates these pods and it runs normally.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
After {oadp-short} restores, the Cassandra application pods might enter `CrashLoopBackoff` status. To work around this problem, delete the `StatefulSet` pods that are returning the error `CrashLoopBackoff` state after restoring {oadp-short}. The `StatefulSet` controller then recreates these pods and it runs normally.
```
